Well let's take a few minutes and see if we can set up some sort of a lighting scheme for our set here
for this light up here.
I think maybe let's change this to sunlight and let's think about this in terms of maybe there's a window
to the right of this scene maybe there's a window in the room.
Sunlight is coming in.
But in addition we have maybe a couple of lights on under the countertops here or under the cabinets
here.
So let's think about that.
I always like to kind of think about what's happening in the scene.
Where are the light sources.
Is there a window in this scene and what time of day is it because that matters too.
If it's early morning or late in the evening and we have sun coming in the window it's going to be one
at a lower angle and two it's also going to be a different color.
Maybe it'll be more of an orange since the sunlight is coming through the atmosphere and we have a kind
of an orange sunrise or sunset.
So thinking about time of day and where the light sources are really helps you as you begin to think
about lighting scheme.
So maybe it's like about like this let's say the sun is coming in to the windows about like this and
I'll go ahead and turn on the rendered viewport and shading over here so we can kind of see what's going
on.
And of course since we have the sunlight it looks like there's a nuclear holocaust going on outside.
So we need to change that.
Let's take it down to one for now and see how that works for us.
Now even with the sunlight I can change the size of the light and if I take this down quite a bit I
can sharpen up those shadows and bring it down to like point five.
And now the shadows should be a little sharper now as if it's coming from sunlight.
Well maybe take it down a little bit more maybe to point one.
Let's try that.
There we go.
Now that we have that in place let's also think about the color of the light.
We have a color value here it's currently at white.
Maybe it's a little bit.
Let's take it to the blue in just a hair.
Now you don't really need a lot of color when it comes to a light if you swing it way over here if it
can really be disconcerting so let's just barely give it any blue at all almost so we can't tell it's
there we go.
So maybe we've got blue light coming from the sky since the sun is kind of high in the sky there.
And now let's think about some of these lights underneath the cabinets.
Maybe these are more incandescent and therefore a little bit more orange.
So for these Let's create an area light I'll come back over here.
Create an area and that's going to pop into the center of the grid there.
I'll raise it up a bit and I'll also increase its size so we can kind of see it a little better there.
Now perhaps I could go to my scale tool and scale this in just a little bit so it's kind of the shape
of what an under the counter light would be.
I'll switch to my move tool and just bring this up underneath right in here right under the counter.
There you go.
So now you can see we've got this light coming in from the top of the frame.
It's once again pretty bright so I'm going to take this down to maybe 10.
Let's see how that works.
All right so we can see that there are go ahead and duplicate this with shift D and I'll move this out
here and rotate it around the z axis so I'll press R Z 9 0 and rotate that and move it over here underneath
the counter as well.
Something like that.
And now you can see we've got these lights coming down from where those would be.
Maybe I'll move them out just a bit so we kind of center them underneath the counter just a little bit
more something like that yes you can kind of see that coming down.
And for the color of these Let's let's say we want it to be a little bit orange ish maybe something
like this just a little bit orange ish.
And this one as well I'll just move that to the Orange side of the spectrum.
And there we go.
So now we've got a light coming in from the right side of our screen so maybe that's an open window
and then we've got a couple of lights shining down from under the cabinets.
Let's go ahead and render this out and see how it looks.
I'll turn the render viewport shading off.
Change it to solid.
Now come over here to the render panel and then click on the render button
and there we are.
Now we talked a little bit before about resolution and the quality of the image.
We're getting a lot of grain here.
So let's try two things.
Let's one take the resolution up from 50 to 100 and hit render.
So that looks a little bit better but we've still got quite a bit of grain.
Well we can take care of that by scrolling down here and looking in the sampling area.
And if we scroll that open we can see that our samples here are 10 and 10.
So we're getting a preview of 10 samples and a render of 10 samples.
Now yours may be a bit different here depending on if you've done any work here previously.
So the preview is for our rendered viewport shading mode and the Render is for our final render here.
So I'm going to bring that render up from 10 to say one hundred and let's see how this helps.
I'll scroll back up and render and let's see how it looks.
And there we go.
Well that looks considerably better now doesn't it.
But there's one thing we need to make sure and keep in mind now I have collapsed time here a bit because
this rendered took almost three minutes whereas the last one took only 20 seconds.
So increasing the quality or the sampling of your render drastically changes how long it takes to render
each frame.
So that's something to keep in mind as we move forward.
Now if you're just creating a still image probably not a problem but if you're creating an animation
where you have hundreds if not thousands of individual frames to render thinking about render time may
be an important issue for your project.
So now that we have our basic lighting setup here for our scene in the next video let's talk about scene
scale how the size and scale of our objects affects the lighting in our scene.